# Data Analytics Mini Project Idea
#### _Ellison Holloway_ | _1/30/25_ | _Data 400_

My three-course sequence in Neuroscience has given me a unique opportunity to conduct a novel Data Analytics project. Unfortunately, a novel project comes with novel data, which I will need to figure out how to utilize. While I have yet to uncover how the EEG data works, as it will require the use of C++ or MATLAB, which I will have to learn over the course of this project, I can reasonably assume that I will find a way to work with it and include it in the project. Aside from the technical abilities that I will have to learn in order to pull this off, I was wondering: Is there any correlation between the EEG data and the psychometric evaluations?

I obtained this data from [Mendeley Data](https://data.mendeley.com/datasets/bnfgrn5jbb/4), which I found on the neuroscience database [EBRAINS Knowledge Graph](https://search.kg.ebrains.eu/). The dataset contains data from 104 subjects, 40 of which completed all three reading EEG recordings, and 45 of which completed both of the math EEG recordings. This leaves 85 subjects in total that have completed one of two of the experiments. Additionally, all 104 subjects were first given psychometric evaluations in either math and reading comprehension, corresponding with which EEG recording they underwent.
Many of the variables that are contained in the dataset are both numerical and categorical. The age, gender, and IQ estimation of all subjects was recorded, as well as many datapoints relating to the psychometric evaluations, including numbers of errors, the speed at which the tasks are completed, and how steady their attention was during the evaluation.

Admittedly, not knowing how the EEG data is formatted leaves me unsure of which model I would be using to evaluate it. I am going to guess that some combination of clustering and ML would be required.

This project could potentially possess great value for stakeholders, as if there is a correlation found between certain brain patterns and lower performance levels, it could assist in the detection of a struggling child that requires intervention. This is especially helpful because this particular dataset possesses children struggling with both reading and mathematics, and the potential correlations of different brain patterns with different academic struggles could be equally helpful.

As for any ethical issues that may arise, I find none in the data itself. Every subject is anonymized, and consent was gathered both from the children involved in the experiment as well as their parents. As for the ethical implications of the project, there is the possibility that researching the way in which the brain works could have problematic side effects if a correlation is found between certain brain patterns and lower performance levels. While this could also be seen as an upside, as it could help detect if a child is struggling and allow for intervention, such information could also be used to justify eugenics if one is not careful.

